# Optimize Instructor Assignment & Class Scheduling

## Abstract

Instructor assignment and class scheduling is a complex problem and can be time-consuming. It is also difficult to account for instructor preference and create a balanced schedule. A regularized course schedule boosts both student and instructor performance. By optimizing the assignment process of courses, we can allocate the best instructor to their course of preference. Also, given the current COVID situation and consequent restriction, we need to meet the restriction of maximum utilization threshold of classrooms on campus at a given time.
The problem combines both teacher assignment and course scheduling problems simultaneously and is presented as a mathematical programming model. The model optimizes the instructor satisfaction based on course preference while meeting all other requirements and constraints.

## Introduction and Motivation
For the effective working of an institution, available resources should be utilized efficiently. One of the key aspects in achieving this is to instate an efficient instructor assignment and class scheduling system.
Colleges and schools always face the problem of creating a schedule, leading to unequal distribution of classes and subsequent dissatisfaction amongst the instructors. Additionally, sometimes teachers are given courses that they are not equipped to teach. Given the current pandemic situation, educational institutions have also been required to meet COVID restrictions of capacity in and around the campus.
Assignment and scheduling problems have been widely studied for the past several decades to improve delivery and satisfaction in various academic portfolios. Traditionally in colleges and schools, schedules used to be created manually using permutations and combinations to arrive at the best solutions. In large institutions, it had been a very difficult task to do this manually, and mostly these schedules used to be created by looking into past schedules and adjusting schedule instructors/courses based on availability. With modern research in this domain and readily available tools, institutions can utilize resources more optimally.
In this project, we have developed an optimization model to maximize instructor satisfaction based on preference considering several constraints. For this project, we have taken a sample dataset and created an optimized schedule for Master’s in Business Analytics for the upcoming semester.